README.md, before:

# oracle-db-examples
This repository stores a variety of examples demonstrating how to use the Oracle Database. 

| Repo/Folder name  | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| [db-sample-schemas](https://github.com/oracle/db-sample-schemas) | Git submodule of the Oracle Database Sample Schemas |
| [dotnet](https://github.com/oracle/dotnet-db-samples) | .NET based examples |
| [java](./java)  | Java based examples |
| [javascript](./javascript) | JavaScript based examples |
| [machine-learning](./machine-learning) | Oracle Machine Learning examples |
| [optimizer](./optimizer) | Oracle Optmizer and Optimizer Stats examples |
| [plsql](./plsql) | PL/SQL based examples |
| [python](./python) | Python based examples |
| [ruby](./ruby) | Ruby based examples |
| [spatial](./spatial) | Spatial examples |
| [sql](./sql) | SQL based examples |
| [sqldeveloper](./sqldeveloper) | [SQL Developer](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/developer-tools/sql-developer/) examples |

## Documentation
You can find the online documentation of the Oracle Database under [docs.oracle.com/en/database/](http://docs.oracle.com/en/database/)

## LiveSQL
Some of the examples that you see within this repository can be executed in the free web-based tool: [LiveSQL.oracle.com](https://livesql.oracle.com).

LiveSQL is also an excellent resource for getting started with Oracle Database.

## License

You may not use the identified files except in compliance with the
Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License.")

You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.  A copy of the license is
also reproduced in [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Update ReadMe (#189)
Signed-off-by: Gerald Venzl <gerald.venzl@oracle.com>

README.md, after:

# oracle-db-examples
This repository stores a variety of examples demonstrating how to use the Oracle Database. 

| Repo/Folder name  | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| [apex](./apex) | APEX examples |
| [db-sample-schemas](https://github.com/oracle/db-sample-schemas) | Git submodule of the Oracle Database Sample Schemas |
| [dotnet](https://github.com/oracle/dotnet-db-samples) | .NET based examples |
| [java](./java)  | Java based examples |
| [javascript](./javascript) | JavaScript based examples |
| [machine-learning](./machine-learning) | Oracle Machine Learning examples |
| [optimizer](./optimizer) | Oracle Optmizer and Optimizer Stats examples |
| [plsql](./plsql) | PL/SQL based examples |
| [python](./python) | Python based examples |
| [ruby](./ruby) | Ruby based examples |
| [spatial](./spatial) | Spatial examples |
| [sql](./sql) | SQL based examples |
| [sqldeveloper](./sqldeveloper) | [SQL Developer](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/developer-tools/sql-developer/) examples |

## Documentation
You can find the online documentation of the Oracle Database under [docs.oracle.com/en/database/](http://docs.oracle.com/en/database/)

## LiveSQL
Some of the examples that you see within this repository can be executed in the free web-based tool: [LiveSQL.oracle.com](https://livesql.oracle.com).

LiveSQL is also an excellent resource for getting started with Oracle Database.

## Dev Gym
If you would like to challenge yourself, you can take quizzes, workouts and classes at [DevGym.oracle.com](https://devgym.oracle.com).

## License

You may not use the identified files except in compliance with the
Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License.")

You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.  A copy of the license is
also reproduced in [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
