java/README.md, before:

# Java based examples
This is a repository of sample code that will demonstrate various concepts to assist Java developers in designing applications for accessing and processing data from the Oracle Database, leveraging Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Universal Connection Pool (UCP); or running Java code directly in the database leveraging the embedded JVM (a.k.a. OJVM).

# What's in Oracle database 12c Release 2 for Java Developers? 
* **Java 8**: Java 8 in JDBC/UCP and OJVM; JDBC 4.2
* **Performance**: JIT (OJVM), Network Compression over WAN (JDBC), Configurable connection health check frequency (UCP), PL/SQL Callbace interface (JDBC)
* **Scalability**: Shared Pool for Multi-Tenant Database (UCP), Shared Pool for Sharded database (UCP), Sharding Key APIs (JDBC, UCP), DRCP Proxy session sharing, DRCP support for  multiple labels
* **High-Availability**: Java APIs for FAN events (SimpleFan.jar), Planned Maintenance in the driver (JDBC), Application Continuity for XA Datasources, Transaction Guard for XA Datasource
* **Security**: SSL v1.2 / TLS v 1.2 (JDBC)
* **Manageability**: XMLconfiguration (UCP), Enable/disable/suspend/resume feature level logging (JDBC), MAX_THINK_TIME for Transactions in progress (DRCP), new statistics view and AWR reports  
* **Ease of Use** : Web Services Callout (OJCM), Long Identifiers (OJVM), PL/SQL Boolean (JDBC), Debugger for OJVM (Java Debug Wire Protocol)

# [White paper](http://bit.ly/2orH5jf)
# [See our OTN landing page for more information and resources](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/application-development/java/overview/index.html)

Commit message:

Added the code samples fo the Async DB Access over JDBC (AoJ)

java/README.md, after:

# Java based examples
This is a repository of sample code that will demonstrate various concepts to assist Java developers in designing applications for accessing and processing data from the Oracle Database, leveraging Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Universal Connection Pool (UCP); or running Java code directly in the database leveraging the embedded JVM (a.k.a. OJVM).

We have just added the AoJ sub-repository for the Asynchronous Java Database Access (ADBA) over JDBC.

# What's in Oracle database 12c Release 2 for Java Developers? 
* **Java 8**: Java 8 in JDBC/UCP and OJVM; JDBC 4.2
* **Performance**: JIT (OJVM), Network Compression over WAN (JDBC), Configurable connection health check frequency (UCP), PL/SQL Callbace interface (JDBC)
* **Scalability**: Shared Pool for Multi-Tenant Database (UCP), Shared Pool for Sharded database (UCP), Sharding Key APIs (JDBC, UCP), DRCP Proxy session sharing, DRCP support for  multiple labels
* **High-Availability**: Java APIs for FAN events (SimpleFan.jar), Planned Maintenance in the driver (JDBC), Application Continuity for XA Datasources, Transaction Guard for XA Datasource
* **Security**: SSL v1.2 / TLS v 1.2 (JDBC)
* **Manageability**: XMLconfiguration (UCP), Enable/disable/suspend/resume feature level logging (JDBC), MAX_THINK_TIME for Transactions in progress (DRCP), new statistics view and AWR reports  
* **Ease of Use** : Web Services Callout (OJCM), Long Identifiers (OJVM), PL/SQL Boolean (JDBC), Debugger for OJVM (Java Debug Wire Protocol)

# [White paper](http://bit.ly/2orH5jf)
# [See our OTN landing page for more information and resources](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/application-development/java/overview/index.html)
