machine-learning/notebooks/python/README.md, before:

# Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks
Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks is a collaborative user interface for data scientists and business and data analysts who perform machine learning in Oracle Autonomous Database.   

Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks enables data scientists, citizen data scientists, and data analysts to work together to explore their data visually and develop analytical methodologies in the Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud. Oracle's high performance, parallel and scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms are exposed via SQL and PL/SQL using notebook technologies. Oracle Machine Learning enables teams to collaborate to build, assess, and deploy machine learning models, while increasing data scientist productivity Oracle Machine Learning focuses on ease of use and simplified machine learning for data science – from preparation through deployment – all in Oracle Autonomous Database.

Based on Apache Zeppelin notebook technology, Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks provides a common platform with a single interface that can connect to multiple data sources and access multiple back-end Autonomous Database servers. Multi-user collaboration enables the same notebook document to be opened simultaneously by different users, such that changes made by one user to a notebook are instantaneously reflected to all users viewing that notebook. To support enterprise requirements for security, authentication, and auditing, Oracle Machine Learning supports privilege-based access to data, models, and notebooks, as well as being integrated with Oracle security protocols.

Key Features:   

* Collaborative UI for data scientists
* Enables sharing of notebooks and templates with permissions and execution scheduling 
* Access to 30+ parallel, scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms
* Python, SQL and PL/SQL scripting language supported
* Enables and supports deployments of enterprise machine learning methodologies in Autonomous Data Warehouse (ADW), Autonomous Transactional Database (ATP) and Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

This current folder contains the examples based on Oracle Machine Learning for Python (OML4Py)

 See [Introducing Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks for the Oracle Autonomous Data Warehouse](https://blogs.oracle.com/datamining/introducing-oracle-machine-learning-sql-notebooks-for-the-oracle-autonomous-data-warehouse-cloud) blog post for more information.

#### Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle Corporation and/or its affilitiates.

###### [The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/)

Commit message:

Large update and new all Notebook examples
Large update and new all Notebook examples including new Labs, new ReadMe files, and new content.

machine-learning/notebooks/python/README.md, after:

# Oracle Machine Learning for Python
Oracle Machine Learning for Python (OML4Py) supports scalable in-database data exploration and preparation using native Python syntax, scalable in-database algorithms for machine learning model building and scoring, and automated machine learning (AutoML). Users can also invoke user-defined Python functions from Python, SQL and REST APIs using database-spawned Python engines. OML4Py increases data scientist productivity and reduces solution deployment complexity.

Python is a major programming language used for data science and machine learning. OML4Py is a feature on Oracle Autonomous Database that provides Python users access to powerful in-database functionality supporting data scientists for both scalability, performance, and ease of solution deployment. 

Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks is a collaborative user interface for data scientists and business and data analysts who perform machine learning in Oracle Autonomous Database.   

Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks enables data scientists, citizen data scientists, and data analysts to work together to explore their data visually and develop analytical methodologies in the Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud. Oracle's high performance, parallel and scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms are exposed via SQL and PL/SQL using notebook technologies. Oracle Machine Learning enables teams to collaborate to build, assess, and deploy machine learning models, while increasing data scientist productivity Oracle Machine Learning focuses on ease of use and simplified machine learning for data science – from preparation through deployment – all in Oracle Autonomous Database.

Based on Apache Zeppelin notebook technology, Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks provides a common platform with a single interface that can connect to multiple data sources and access multiple back-end Autonomous Database servers. Multi-user collaboration enables the same notebook document to be opened simultaneously by different users, such that changes made by one user to a notebook are instantaneously reflected to all users viewing that notebook. To support enterprise requirements for security, authentication, and auditing, Oracle Machine Learning supports privilege-based access to data, models, and notebooks, as well as being integrated with Oracle security protocols.

Key Features:   

* Collaborative UI for data scientists
* Enables sharing of notebooks and templates with permissions and execution scheduling 
* Access to 30+ parallel, scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms
* Python, SQL and PL/SQL scripting language supported
* Enables and supports deployments of enterprise machine learning methodologies in Autonomous Data Warehouse (ADW), Autonomous Transactional Database (ATP) and Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

This current folder contains the examples based on Oracle Machine Learning for Python (OML4Py), from data preparation and transformation, to the machine learning algorithms and scoring.

The specific denomination "AskTOM_OML_Office_Hours" in the name of the file indicates that the Notebook was presented at one of the previous sessions of the [AskTOM Oracle Machine Learning Office Hours](https://asktom.oracle.com/pls/apex/asktom.search?oh=6801#sessions).

 See [Introducing Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks for the Oracle Autonomous Data Warehouse](https://blogs.oracle.com/datamining/introducing-oracle-machine-learning-sql-notebooks-for-the-oracle-autonomous-data-warehouse-cloud) blog post for more information.

#### Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle Corporation and/or its affilitiates.

###### [The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/)
