machine-learning/notebooks/r/README.md, before:

# Oracle Machine Learning sample Notebooks in R language
The sample notebooks on this folder are expected to be used with Oracle Machine Learning for R and Oracle Machine Learning for Spark. 

The notebooks available in JSON format are compatible with any open-source Apache Zeppelin notebook environment.

That includes an Apache Zeppelin running on a server that can connect to an Oracle Database (for using the OML4R notebook examples), or an Apache Zeppelin running on a server (Hadoop Edge Node) that can connect to a Hadoop Cluster.

The OML4R notebooks can be used with an on-premise Oracle Database and also a Database Cloud Service (except the Autonomous Database, which runs its own Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks).

The OML4Spark notebooks can also be used with the Oracle Big Data Service, and are also available in the Oracle Big Data Appliance.

#### Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle Corporation and/or its affilitiates.

###### [The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/)

Commit message:

Major changes to structure and new OML4R Notebooks
Major changes to structure and new OML4R Notebooks
Organization changes to OML4Spark and OML4R Notebook folders
Updates to ReadME files

machine-learning/notebooks/r/README.md, after:

# Oracle Machine Learning for R
Oracle Machine Learning for R (OML4R) supports scalable in-database data exploration and preparation using native R syntax, scalable in-database algorithms for machine learning model building and scoring. Users can also invoke user-defined Python functions from R, SQL and REST APIs using database-spawned R engines. OML4R increases data scientist productivity and reduces solution deployment complexity.

R is a major programming language used for data science and machine learning. OML4R is a feature on Oracle Autonomous Database that provides R users access to powerful in-database functionality supporting data scientists for both scalability, performance, and ease of solution deployment. 

Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks is a collaborative user interface for data scientists and business and data analysts who perform machine learning in Oracle Autonomous Database.   

Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks enables data scientists, citizen data scientists, and data analysts to work together to explore their data visually and develop analytical methodologies in the Autonomous Database. Oracle's high performance, parallel and scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms are exposed via SQL and PL/SQL using notebook technologies. Oracle Machine Learning enables teams to collaborate to build, assess, and deploy machine learning models, while increasing data scientist productivity Oracle Machine Learning focuses on ease of use and simplified machine learning for data science – from preparation through deployment – all in Oracle Autonomous Database.

Based on Apache Zeppelin notebook technology, Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks provides a common platform with a single interface that can connect to multiple data sources and access multiple back-end Autonomous Database servers. Multi-user collaboration enables the same notebook document to be opened simultaneously by different users, such that changes made by one user to a notebook are instantaneously reflected to all users viewing that notebook. To support enterprise requirements for security, authentication, and auditing, Oracle Machine Learning supports privilege-based access to data, models, and notebooks, as well as being integrated with Oracle security protocols.

Key Features:   

* Collaborative UI for data scientists
* Enables sharing of notebooks and templates with permissions and execution scheduling 
* Access to 30+ parallel, scalable in-Database implementations of machine learning algorithms
* Python, R, SQL and PL/SQL scripting language supported
* Enables and supports deployments of enterprise machine learning methodologies in all versions of Autonomous Database

This current folder contains the examples based on Oracle Machine Learning for R (OML4R), from data preparation and transformation, to the machine learning algorithms and scoring.

The specific denomination "OfficeHours_" in the name of the file indicates that the Notebook was presented at one of the previous sessions of the [AskTOM Oracle Machine Learning Office Hours](https://asktom.oracle.com/pls/apex/asktom.search?oh=6801#sessions).

See [Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks - Get Started](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/machine-learning/oml-notebooks/) for more information.

#### Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle Corporation and/or its affilitiates.

###### [The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0](https://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl/)
